As a digital forensics investigator, you arrive at a scene similar to the one shown in the image above. 
What should you do as a digital forensics investigator? 
After getting the proper legal authorization, the basic plan goes as follows:

Acquire the evidence: Collect the digital devices such as laptops, storage devices, and digital cameras. (Note that laptops and computers require special handling if they are turned on; however, this is outside the scope of this room.)
Establish a chain of custody: Fill out the related form appropriately (Sample form). The purpose is to ensure that only the authorized investigators had access to the evidence and no one could have tampered with it.
Place the evidence in a secure container: You want to ensure that the evidence does not get damaged. In the case of smartphones, you want to ensure that they cannot access the network, so they don’t get wiped remotely.
Transport the evidence to your digital forensics lab.
At the lab, the process goes as follows:

Retrieve the digital evidence from the secure container.
Create a forensic copy of the evidence: The forensic copy requires advanced software to avoid modifying the original data.
Return the digital evidence to the secure container: You will be working on the copy. If you damage the copy, you can always create a new one.
Start processing the copy on your forensics workstation.
The above steps have been adapted from Guide to Computer Forensics and Investigations, 6th Edition.

More generally, according to the former director of the Defense Computer Forensics Laboratory, Ken Zatyko, digital forensics includes:

Proper search authority: Investigators cannot commence without the proper legal authority.
Chain of custody: This is necessary to keep track of who was holding the evidence at any time.
Validation with mathematics: Using a special kind of mathematical function, called a hash function, we can confirm that a file has not been modified.
Use of validated tools: The tools used in digital forensics should be validated to ensure that they work correctly. 

For example, if you are creating an image of a disk, you want to ensure that the forensic image is identical to the data on the disk.
Repeatability: The findings of digital forensics can be reproduced as long as the proper skills and tools are available.

Reporting: The digital forensics investigation is concluded with a report that shows the evidence related to the case that was discovered.

Everything we do on our digital devices, from smartphones to computers, leaves traces. Let’s see how we can use this in the subsequent investigation.

Our cat, Gado, has been kidnapped. The kidnapper has sent us a document with their requests in MS Word Document format. 
We have converted the document to PDF format and extracted the image from the MS Word file for your convenience.

You can download the attached file to your local machine for inspection; however, for your convenience we have added the files to the AttackBox. To follow along, open the terminal on the AttackBox, then go to the directory /root/Rooms/introdigitalforensics as shown below. In the following terminal output, we changed to the directory containing the case files.

Terminal
root# cd /root/Rooms
root# cd introdigitalforensics
root# ls
letter-image.jpg  ransom-letter.doc  ransom-letter.pdf  ransom-lettter-2.zip
Document Metadata
When you create a text file, TXT, some metadata gets saved by the Operating System, such as file creation date and last modification date. However, much information gets kept within the file’s metadata when you use a more advanced editor, such as MS Word. There are various ways to read the file metadata; you might open them within their official viewer/editor or use a suitable forensic tool. Note that exporting the file to other formats, such as PDF, would maintain most of the metadata of the original document, depending on the PDF writer used.

Let’s see what we can learn from the PDF file. We can try to read the metadata using the program pdfinfo. Pdfinfo displays various metadata related to a PDF file, such as title, subject, author, creator, and creation date. (The AttackBox already has pdfinfo installed; however, if you are using Kali Linux and don’t have pdfinfo installed, you can install it using sudo apt install poppler-utils.) Consider the following example of using pdfinfo DOCUMENT.pdf.

Terminal
user@TryHackMe$ pdfinfo DOCUMENT.pdf 
Creator:        Microsoft® Word for Office 365
Producer:       Microsoft® Word for Office 365
CreationDate:   Wed Oct 10 21:47:53 2018 EEST
ModDate:        Wed Oct 10 21:47:53 2018 EEST
Tagged:         yes
UserProperties: no
Suspects:       no
Form:           none
JavaScript:     no
Pages:          20
Encrypted:      no
Page size:      595.32 x 841.92 pts (A4)
Page rot:       0
File size:      560362 bytes
Optimized:      no
PDF version:    1.7
The PDF metadata clearly shows that it was created using MS Word for Office 365 on October 10, 2018.

Answer the questions below
Using pdfinfo, find out the author of the attached PDF file, ransom-letter.pdf.

Answer format: *** **** ********
Submit
Photo EXIF Data
EXIF stands for Exchangeable Image File Format; it is a standard for saving metadata to image files. Whenever you take a photo with your smartphone or with your digital camera, plenty of information gets embedded in the image. The following are examples of metadata that can be found in the original digital images:

Camera model / Smartphone model
Date and time of image capture
Photo settings such as focal length, aperture, shutter speed, and ISO settings
Because smartphones are equipped with a GPS sensor, finding GPS coordinates embedded in the image is highly probable. The GPS coordinates, i.e., latitude and longitude, would generally show the place where the photo was taken.

There are many online and offline tools to read the EXIF data from images. One command-line tool is exiftool. ExifTool is used to read and write metadata in various file types, such as JPEG images. (The AttackBox already has exiftool installed; however, if you are using Kali Linux and don’t have exiftool installed, you can install it using sudo apt install libimage-exiftool-perl.) In the following terminal window, we executed exiftool IMAGE.jpg to read all the EXIF data embedded in this image.

Terminal
user@TryHackMe$ exiftool IMAGE.jpg
[...]
GPS Position : 51 deg 31' 4.00" N, 0 deg 5' 48.30" W
[...]
If you take the above coordinates and search one of the online maps, you will learn more about this location. Searching Microsoft Bing Maps or Google Maps for 51 deg 30' 51.90" N, 0 deg 5' 38.73" W reveals the street where the photo was taken. Note that for the search to work, we had to replace deg with ° and remove the extra white space. In other words, we typed 51°30'51.9"N 0°05'38.7"W in the map search bar.

Using exiftool or any similar tool, try to find where the kidnappers took the image they attached to their document. What is the name of the street?

Answer format: **** ******
Submit
Hint
What is the model name of the camera used to take this photo?

