So far, we’ve been using John’s wordlist mode to brute-force simple and not-so-simple hashes. But John also has another mode, called the Single Crack mode. In this mode, John uses only the information provided in the username to try and work out possible passwords heuristically by slightly changing the letters and numbers contained within the username.

Word Mangling
The best way to explain Single Crack mode and word mangling is to go through an example:

Consider the username “Markus”.

Some possible passwords could be:

Markus1, Markus2, Markus3 (etc.)
MArkus, MARkus, MARKus (etc.)
Markus!, Markus$, Markus* (etc.)
This technique is called word mangling. John is building its dictionary based on the information it has been fed and uses a set of rules called “mangling rules,” which define how it can mutate the word it started with to generate a wordlist based on relevant factors for the target you’re trying to crack. This exploits how poor passwords can be based on information about the username or the service they’re logging into.

GECOS
John’s implementation of word mangling also features compatibility with the GECOS field of the UNIX operating system, as well as other UNIX-like operating systems such as Linux. GECOS stands for General Electric Comprehensive Operating System. In the last task, we looked at the entries for both /etc/shadow and /etc/passwd. Looking closely, you will notice that the fields are separated by a colon :. The fifth field in the user account record is the GECOS field. It stores general information about the user, such as the user’s full name, office number, and telephone number, among other things. John can take information stored in those records, such as full name and home directory name, to add to the wordlist it generates when cracking /etc/shadow hashes with single crack mode.

Using Single Crack Mode
To use single crack mode, we use roughly the same syntax that we’ve used so far; for example, if we wanted to crack the password of the user named “Mike”, using the single mode, we’d use:

john --single --format=[format] [path to file]

--single: This flag lets John know you want to use the single hash-cracking mode
--format=[format]: As always, it is vital to identify the proper format.
Example Usage:

john --single --format=raw-sha256 hashes.txt

A Note on File Formats in Single Crack Mode:

If you’re cracking hashes in single crack mode, you need to change the file format that you’re feeding John for it to understand what data to create a wordlist from. You do this by prepending the hash with the username that the hash belongs to, so according to the above example, we would change the file hashes.txt

From 1efee03cdcb96d90ad48ccc7b8666033

To mike:1efee03cdcb96d90ad48ccc7b8666033

Practical
Now that you’re familiar with the Syntax for John’s single crack mode, access the hash and crack it, assuming that the user it belongs to is called “Joker”. The file is located in ~/John-the-Ripper-The-Basics/Task07/.

Answer the questions below
What is Joker’s password?
